h1. Configuration

Configuration and list of available settings for django-compress

*Don't forget to read BackwardsIncompatibleChanges*

h3. Specifying files

You specify groups of files to be compressed in your settings. The basic syntax for specifying CSS/JavaScript groups files is:

<pre><code>
COMPRESS_CSS = {
    'group_one': {
        'source_filenames': ('css/style.css', 'css/foo.css', 'css/bar.css'),
        'output_filename': 'css/one_compressed.css',
        'extra_context': {
            'media': 'screen,projection',
        },
    },
    
    # other CSS groups goes here
}

COMPRESS_JS = {
    'all': {
        'source_filenames': ('js/jquery-1.2.3.js', 'js/jquery-preload.js', 'js/jquery.pngFix.js',
        'js/my_script.js', 'js/my_other_script.js'),
        'output_filename': 'js/all_compressed.js',
    }
}
</code></pre>

h4. Group options

* </tt>source_filenames</tt> is a tuple with the source files to be compressed. The files are concatenated in the order it is specified in the tuple. This option is required.
* </tt>output_filename</tt> is the filename of the (to be) compressed file. This option is required.
* </tt>extra_context</tt> is a dictionary of values to add to the template context, when generating the HTML for the HTML-tags with the templatetags. This option is not required and can be left out. For CSS, if you do not specify </tt>extra_context</tt>/</tt>media</tt>, the default media in the </tt><link></tt> output will be </tt>media="all"</tt>.

Note that all filenames are specified relative to MEDIA_ROOT, and thus the source files needs to be in your MEDIA_ROOT.

h3. Other settings

* </tt>COMPRESS</tt>: When </tt>COMPRESS</tt> is </tt>True</tt>, CSS and JavaScripts will be concatenated and filtered. When </tt>False</tt>, the source-files will be used instead. Defaults to </tt>not DEBUG</tt> (compressed files will only be used in non-DEBUG-mode (production))
* </tt>COMPRESS_AUTO</tt>: Auto-generate CSS and JavaScript files whenever needed, when the template tags are invoked. This setting will make sure that the outputted files always are up to date (assuming that you are using the provided templatetags to output the links to your files). If you disable this, you can use the management command to keep your files manually updated. Defaults to </tt>True</tt>.
* </tt>COMPRESS_VERSION</tt>: Regulates whether or not to add a "version number" to the outputted files filename with for use with “far future Expires”. For more information, see [FarFutureExpires]. When you specify </tt>COMPRESS_VERSION</tt> you will also need to add a placeholder (which by default is '?') for the version number in the </tt>output_filename</tt> setting.
* </tt>COMPRESS_VERSION_REMOVE_OLD</tt>: When </tt>True</tt>, old compressed files will be removed when new versions are generated. All files with a matching name e.g. </tt>output_filename</tt> where ? can be replaced by digits will be removed. If you for some reason have files named in the same way, you should consider moving them or putting the compressed files in their own directory. Defaults to </tt>True</tt>.

</tt>COMPRESS_VERSION</tt> Example:
<pre><code>
COMPRESS = True
COMPRESS_VERSION = True
COMPRESS_CSS = {
    'screen': {
        'source_filenames': ('css/screen/style.css', 'css/screen/paginator.css', 'css/screen/agenda.css', 'css/screen/weather.css', 'css/screen/gallery.css', ),
        'output_filename': 'c/screen.r?.css',
    },
}
</code></pre>

This will output a file like <tt>/media/c/screen.r1213947531.css</tt>, which will be re-generated and updated when you change your source files.

* </tt>COMPRESS_CSS_FILTERS</tt>: A tuple of filters to be applied to CSS files. Defaults to </tt>('compress.filters.csstidy.CSSTidyFilter', )</tt>. Please note that in order to use CSSTidy, you need to install CSSTidy (see [Installation] for more details).
* </tt>COMPRESS_JS_FILTERS</tt>: A tuple of filters to be applied to JavaScript files. Defaults to </tt>('compress.filters.jsmin.JSMinFilter',)</tt>

</tt>COMPRESS_*_FILTERS</tt> can be set to an empty tuple or None to not use any filters. The files will however still be concatenated to one file.

h4. Prefix - An Alternative to MEDIA_URL

In cases where you want to deploy your compiled script and styles to somewhere other than your MEDIA_URL, say a Content Delivery
Network, you can use the optional _prefix_ parameter:

<pre><code>
	COMPRESS_CSS = {
	    'group_one': {
	        'source_filenames': ('css/style.css', 'css/foo.css', 'css/bar.css'),
	        'output_filename': 'css/one_compressed.css',
	        'extra_context': {
	            'media': 'screen,projection',
				'prefix': 'http://cdn.example.com/'
	        },
	    },

	    # other CSS groups goes here
	}
</code></pre>

In this example, the template tags will render _http://cdn.example.com/css/one_compressed.css_ in the link tag.  You will need to manually put there after you build as part of your deployment process.

h4. CSS URL Replace Filter

This is a really simple filter for doing Python string replacements on your CSS.  The use case for this is when you have root relative 
urls defined in your css:

<pre><code>
    body {background-image:url(/media/images/background.gif);}
</code></pre>

If you are compiling your media to live on another server, for example if you are deploying the compiled resources to Amazon S3, these 
root relative urls will break.  That is of course unless you also deploy all the media so they stay relative.  However, then you limit yourself 
from being able to prefix the source with a date or version number.  Ideally, you should be able to control where the images are deployed
and those might be different from where your js/css media are being served from.

This filter offers a very simple solution.  Really too simple.  One could make the argument for just doing this search and replace manually 
after the fact, however, I like for my build process to be as automated as possible.  Therefore, I want to write down the rules/settings
once and be able to repeat the build process when needed without thinking about the find and replace.

Enough babbling, here is an example settings.py section:

<pre><code>
	COMPRESS_CSS_FILTERS = ('compress.filters.yui.YUICompressorFilter', 'compress.filters.css_url_replace.CSSURLReplace')
	URL_REPLACE_HOST = 'http://localhost:8000'
	COMPRESS_CSS_URL_REPLACE = [("url(/media", "url(%s/media" % URL_REPLACE_HOST),]
</code></pre>

This will run the CSSURLReplace filter after the CSS is compressed (it is safe to do this in any order, at least for this filter).  The URL_REPLACE_HOST
is not required, just a variable I defined in my settings file to keep things clean (and to override in other environments -- this is obviously my dev
settings file).  

The COMPRESS_CSS_URL_REPLACE is the only required setting by this filter.  It takes a list of tuples, each tuple being exactly two strings.

The first argument in each tuple is the string to find, and the second is the string to replace it with.  The replace operations will execute
in the order they are inserted into the list.  Here I am replacing all url(/media....) in my compiled css to an absolute url of url(http://localhost:8000/media...).

This will have the result of my compiled css can be hosted anywhere and the images will still be served off of http://localhost:8000 (or anywhere else
that I define in URL_REPLACE_HOST prior to build).

You could obviously use this filter to do other types of replacements.

h4. External urls

While django-compress does a great job of minimizing the amount of http requests on your site (hence increasing performence) there are sometimes cases
when you want to include external files aswell. Lets take an example:

<pre><code>
COMPRESS_JS = {
    'jquery': {
        'external_urls': (
            'http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.2.6/jquery.min.js',
            'http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jqueryui/1.5.2/jquery-ui.min.js'
        ),
    },
    'all': {
        'source_filenames': ('js/blog.js', 'js/comments.js'),
        'output_filename': 'js/all.js',
    },
}
</code></pre>
In template:
<pre><code>
    {% load compressed %}
    {% compressed_js 'jquery' %}
    {% compressed_js 'all' %}
</code></pre>
Output in when <tt>settings.COMPRESS = False</tt>
<pre><code>
  <script type="text/javascript" src="http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.2.6/jquery.min.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
  <script type="text/javascript" src="http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jqueryui/1.5.2/jquery-ui.min.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
  <script type="text/javascript" src="/media/js/blog.js" charset="utf-8"></script><script type="text/javascript" src="/media/js/comments.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</code></pre>

Output in when <tt>settings.COMPRESS = True</tt>
<pre><code>
  <script type="text/javascript" src="http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.2.6/jquery.min.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
  <script type="text/javascript" src="http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jqueryui/1.5.2/jquery-ui.min.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
  <script type="text/javascript" src="/media/js/all.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</code></pre>

Now why is this good you ask? The more script sources the more impact on performence according to http://developer.yahoo.com/performance/rules.html#num_http 
which is true but if you are low bandwidth or superbig you may want to offload
some horsepower to google which leads us as hinted in the example above to the next topic.

Note: external urls is currently only available for javascript. There's
currently no reason to have external css files (Yes there are css frameworks aswell on the net but they are often very small or generated to fit your needs)

h4. Google AJAX Libraries API

So the reason for adding external urls support to django-compress is google ajax libraries api support (example above) but you may want to use it however you want. 

The advantages for offloading huge javascript libraries to google cdn is of course that your site will need a lot less bandwidth, even if you use far futures expires headers. But the superior reason is of course that the more sites that uses it, the bigger the chance is that your favorite js framework is already cached in your visitors browser. 

Google also uses far future expires headers so don't worry about that. Don't worry about latency outside the US either. Here in sweden I measuerd a latencey of 39ms.

To sum somethings up, it's up to you and your situation to decide if merging all js files or offloading js libraries to google gives your site the best performence. Both ways are great to achive great performence.

For a complete list of javascript libraries supported go to http://code.google.com/apis/ajaxlibs/

h4. CSSTidy settings

If you choose to use CSSTidy (which is enabled by default), you can also use the following settings:
* </tt>CSSTIDY_BINARY</tt>: name or path of the CSSTidy binary to be used for processing JavaScript-files with the CSSTidy filter. Defaults to </tt>'csstidy'</tt>.
* </tt>CSSTIDY_ARGUMENTS</tt>: specifies arguments to be passed to CSSTidy. Defaults to </tt>'--template=highest'</tt>. See CSSTidy man-page or website for more details.

h4. YUI Compressor settings

* </tt>COMPRESS_YUI_BINARY</tt>: command line to execute for the YUI program. Defaults to </tt>'java -jar yuicompressor.jar'</tt>. You will most likely change this to the location of yuicompressor on your system.
* </tt>COMPRESS_YUI_CSS_ARGUMENTS</tt>: Additional arguments to use when compressing CSS. Defaults to </tt>''</tt>.
* </tt>COMPRESS_YUI_JS_ARGUMENTS</tt>: Additional arguments to use when compressing JavaScript. Defaults to </tt>''</tt>.
